I'M DANA BASH IN WASHINGTON
WHERE THE STATE OF OUR UNION IS
LOOKING OVERSEAS.
>> AFTER EIGHT LONG MONTHS FOR
ISRAELI HOSTAGES ARE BACK HOME
SAFELY. FAMILY REUNIONS AND
TEARS OF JOY AFTER THEY WERE
RESCUED FROM HAMAS CAPTIVITY BY
IDF FORCES IN A SPECIAL
OPERATION SATURDAY MORNING.
>> THE RATE OF TWO SEPARATE
APARTMENTS AND CENTRAL GAZA,
REFUGEE CAMP TOOK MONTHS OF
PREPARATION AND MILITARY
SPOKESMAN SAID, SINCE HAMAS
MOVES HOSTAGES FREQUENTLY AND
EMBEDS THEM IN AREAS PACKED
WITH CIVILIANS LIKE THIS
REFUGEE CAMP FOLLOWING REPORTS
OF HEAVY SHELLING AND ARTILLERY
FIRE, GAZA HOSPITAL SAID MORE
THAN 200 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN
THE OPERATION. CNN HAS NOT BEEN
ABLE TO VERIFY CLAIMS ABOUT THE
EXACT NUMBER OF CIVILIAN DEATHS
IN WHAT WAS THE FIRST
SUCCESSFUL HOSTAGE RESCUE SINCE
FEBRUARY HERE WITH ME NOW FROM
PARIS WHERE HE IS TRAVELING
WITH PRESIDENT BIDEN IS
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER, JAKE
SULLIVAN. THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
BEING WITH ME. LET'S START, OF
COURSE, WITH THE NEWS ABOUT THE
RESCUE OF FOUR ISRAELI HOSTAGES
INSIDE GAZA. HOW SPECIFICALLY
DID THE US ASSIST IN THE
MISSION WELL DANA THE UNITED
STATES HAS BEEN PROVIDING
SUPPORT TO ISRAEL FOR SEVERAL
MONTHS IN ITS EFFORTS TO HELP
IDENTIFY THE LOCATIONS OF
HOSTAGES IN GAZA AND SUPPORT
EFFORTS TO TRY TO SECURE THEIR
RESCUE OR RECOVERY I'M NOT
GOING TO GET INTO THE SPECIFIC
OPERATIONAL OR INTELLIGENCE
RELATED MATTERS ASSOCIATED WITH
THAT BECAUSE WE NEED TO PROTECT
THEM I CAN ONLY JUST SAY THAT
WE HAVE GENERALLY PROVIDED
SUPPORT TO THE IDF SO THAT WE
CAN TRY TO GET ALL OF THE
HOSTAGES HOME, INCLUDING THE
AMERICAN HOSTAGES WHO ARE STILL
BEING HELD SO I UNDERSTAND THAT
INTELLIGENCE U.s.
>> INTELLIGENCE ASSISTED BUT
WHAT YOU SAY ANYTHING ABOUT
U.s. PERSONNEL, US WEAPONS?
>> WELL THE ONE THING I, CAN
SAY IS THAT THERE WERE NO US
FORCES. NO, IT'S NO US BOOTS
ON THE GROUND INVOLVED IN THIS
OPERATION. WE DID NOT
PARTICIPATE MILITARILY IN THIS
OPERATION.
>> JAKE, A MOSQUE CLAIMS THAT
OTHER HOSTAGES THAT THEY ARE
HOLDING INSIDE GAZA WERE KILLED
AS A RESULT OF THE IDF'S
MISSION. IS THAT TRUE?
>> WE HAVE NOT SEEN THAT
VERIFIED OR CONFIRMED. I
BELIEVE THAT THE ISRAELIS HAVE
SAID THEY DO NOT HAVE ANY
INFORMATION TO THAT EFFECT. BUT
OF COURSE, THAT IS ALWAYS A
RISK WITH ALL OF THESE NOTES
TERRY OPERATIONS HOSTAGES HAVE
BEEN KILLED OVER THE LAST EIGHT
MONTHS. DANA, THE BEST WAY TO
GET ALL OF THE HOSTAGES HOME
AND TO PROTECT PALESTINIAN
CIVILIANS IS TO END THIS WAR.
AND THE BEST WAY TO END THIS
WAR IS FOR HAMAS TO SAY YES TO
THE DEAL PRESIDENT BIDEN
ANNOUNCED AND THAT ISRAEL HAS
ACCEPTED WHICH LAYS OUT A
ROADMAP TO AN ENDURING
CEASEFIRE AND THE RETURN OF ALL
HOSTAGES. THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
DRIVING FOR, AND THAT'S WHAT
WE'RE ASKING THE WORLD TO CALL
UPON HAMAS TO ACCEPT ARE YOU
CONCERNED AT ALL?
>> ALL?
>> GIVEN WHAT YOU JUST SAID
THAT THE BALL IS IN HAMAS'S
COURT RIGHT NOW, THAT THE
RESCUE THAT HAPPENED ON
SATURDAY WILL MAKE IT SO THAT
HAMAS MIGHT?
>> WALK AWAY FROM THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE IT'S A
LEGITIMATE QUESTION.
>> I IT'S HARD FOR ME TO PUT
MYSELF IN THE MINDSET OF A
HAMAS TERRORISTS. WE DON'T KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT IT IS THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO DO. BUT THE BASIC
BOTTOM LINE HERE IS
STRAIGHTFORWARD. TO BRING IT
INTO THIS WAR, TO GET THE
HOSTAGES HOME, TO GET THE FULL
SCOPE OF HUMANITARIAN AID TO
THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE IN A
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE WAY, WE NEED
THIS DEAL AND ALL OF THE PEOPLE
ALL OVER THE WORLD AND THE
UNITED STATES AND IN COUNTRIES
EVERYWHERE WHO BEEN CALLING FOR
A CEASEFIRE, THEY NEED TO
TRAIN. THEIR ATTENTION ON HAMAS
AND PUT THE PRESSURE ON BECAUSE
THIS IS THE WAY TO RESOLVE THIS
ISSUE. AND WHATEVER THE
CALCULUS IS OF HAMAS COMING OUT
OF THIS WEEKEND THE REALITY
REMAINS THE SAME. THIS IS THE
ONLY CREDIBLE PATH FORWARD AND
HAMAS SHOULD SAY YES ANY WORD
EITHER FROM HAMAS OR THROUGH
HAMAS'S INTERMEDIARIES ABOUT
THEIR STANCE VIS-A-VIS THE
CEASEFIRE DEAL THAT THE
PRESIDENT ENDORSED.
>> A LITTLE BIT MORE THAN A
WEEK AGO SINCE WHAT HAPPENED
YESTERDAY?
>> WELL, WE'VE HEARD A LOT
PUBLICLY FROM HAMAS OVER THE
LAST WEEK. WE'VE NOT SEEN ANY
OFFICIAL STATEMENTS SINCE WHAT
HAPPENED WITH THE HOSTAGE
RESCUE OPERATION. AND THE TWO
KEY ERROR OF MEDIATORS THERE'S
WHO ARE STANDING ALONGSIDE THE
UNITED STATES IN THIS PROCESS.
QATAR AND EGYPT HAVE NOT YET
RECEIVED ANY OFFICIAL WORD FROM
HAMAS REPRESENTATIVES AS TO
THEIR STANCE ON THE DEAL. HERE,
SO WE ARE WAITING THAT WORD AND
IT SHOULD COME TODAY. IT SHOULD
COME THIS, OUR HAMAS SHOULD SAY
YES WHICH WOULD IMMEDIATELY PUT
IN PLACE A CEASEFIRE AND
IMMEDIATELY BEGIN THE PROCESS
OF BRINGING HOSTAGES HOME. THIS
IS THE ANSWER THAT THE WORLD IS
LOOKING FOR. AND IT'S TIME TO
ACT JAKE, I WANT TO ASK YOU A
LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THAT
MISSION.
>> AND ONE OF THE QUESTIONS IS
WHAT WE'RE HEARING FROM GAZA
TO DIFFERENT HOSPITALS IN GAZA
SAY AT LEAST 236 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AS A PART OF THE ISRAELI
OPERATION TO RESCUE HOSTAGES
WHAT IS YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF
HOW MANY PALESTINIAN CIVILIANS,
NOT MILITANTS, BUT CIVILIANS
WERE KILLED IN THAT RESCUE
MISSION?
>> WE'VE UNITED STATES ARE NOT
IN A POSITION TODAY TO MAKE A
DEFINITIVE STATEMENT ABOUT
THAT, THE ISRAELI DEFENSE
FORCES HAVE PUT OUT ONE NUMBER,
THE HAMAS-RUN GAZA HEALTH
MINISTRY HAS PUT OUT ANOTHER
NUMBER, BUT WE DO KNOW THIS.
DANA INNOCENT PEOPLE WERE
TRAGICALLY KILLED IN THIS
OPERATION. THE EXACT NUMBER FOR
WE DON'T KNOW, BUT INNOCENT
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND THAT IS
HEARTBREAKING. THAT IS TRAGIC
THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF HAS SAID
IN RECENT DAYS THAT THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE ARE GOING
THROUGH SHEER HELL IN THIS
CONFLICT, BECAUSE HAMAS IS
OPERATING IN A WAY THAT PUTS
THEM IN THE CROSS-FIRE THAT
HOLDS HOSTAGES, RIGHT IN THE
HEART OF CROWDED CIVILIAN AREAS
THAT PUTS MILITARY IN PLACE
THAT'S RIGHT IN THE HEART OF
CROWDED CIVILIAN AREAS. BUT
EVERY DAY THAT WE SEE MORE
INNOCENT PEOPLE LOST IS ANOTHER
HORRIBLE, AWFUL TRAGIC DE AND
OUR HEARTS IN THE UNITED STATES
AND ACROSS THE WORLD, BREAK FOR
THAT. BUT THERE IS ONLY ONE
ANSWER TO STOP THAT FROM
HAPPENING GOING FORWARD AND
THAT IS A CEASEFIRE AND HOSTAGE
DEAL THAT ENDS THE MILITARY
OPERATIONS BRINGS THE HOSTAGES
HOME AND PUTS US IN A POSITION
TO GIVE THE PALESTINIANS AND
OPPORTUNITY FOR A BETTER FUTURE
FOR THEIR PEOPLE AND LAST JUST
ABOUT THE MISSION. WE'RE YOU
DON'T WANT TO SPECIFICALLY SAY
HOW THE THE US WAS INVOLVED,
WHICH I UNDERSTAND.
>> BUT JUST BROADLY, BIG
PICTURE NO ONE CAN DENY THE
AMAZING NEWS OF SEEING THESE
INNOCENT CIVILIANS WHO WERE
FINALLY BROUGHT BACK TO THEIR
FAMILIES FROM GAZA AFTER BEING
HELD THERE FOR EIGHT MONTHS.
BUT IS THE US COMFORTABLE WITH
THE WAY THAT THE ISRAELIS
CARRIED OUT THE MISSION LOOKED
IN A WHY IS PRESIDENT BIDEN
GOING OUT?
>> PUBLICLY AND CALLING FOR A
CEASEFIRE AND HOSTAGE DEAL?
IT'S BECAUSE HE THINKS THE
BEST WAY TO GET ALL OF THE
HOSTAGES HOME IS IN A DEAL
WHERE THEY'RE BROUGHT OUT
DIPLOMATICALLY, WHERE THERE'S
NO NEED FOR MILITARY DURATIONS
TO GET EVERY LAST HOSTAGE OUT.
SO THAT WOULD OBVIOUSLY BE THE
BEST SOLUTION TO THIS IN THE
ABSENCE OF THAT WITHOUT HAMAS
SAYING YES TO THE DEAL ON FOUR
FORTUNATELY, WE ARE GOING TO
CONTINUE TO SEE ONGOING
CONFLI A AND MILITARY
OPERATIONS IN WHICH ISRAEL
MAKES EFFORTS TO RECOVER ITS
CITIZENS AND FRANKLY TO RECOVER
AMERICAN CITIZENS WHAT WE WOULD
MUCH PREFER TO SEE IS A
CEASEFIRE WHERE THE HOSTAGES
COME OUT PEACEFULLY. THAT IS
AVAILABLE. ISRAEL HAS SAID YES
TO IT NOW HAMAS NEEDS TO SAY
YES TO IT. THAT'S WHERE
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S FULL EFFORT,
ENERGY, AND ATTENTION IS. AND
YOU HEARD YESTERDAY FROM THE
FRENCH PRESIDENT HERE IN PARIS
THAT FRANCE STANDS BEHIND THAT
THE WORLD STANDS BEHIND THAT,
AND HAMAS SHOULD COME TO THE
TABLE AND SAY, YES, YOU
MENTIONED THAT YOU ARE IN
PARIS.
>> I HAVE TO BEFORE I LET YOU
GO ASK ABOUT THE TRIP THAT YOU
AND OF COURSE THE PRESIDENT IS
MAKING TO EUROPE, MARKING THE
80th ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY. YOU
ARE SOON GOING TO BE PART OF
THE G7 IN ITALY AND THE
PRESIDENT GAVE A VERY BIG
SPEECH ON DEMOCRACY AS HE'S
TRYING TO FRAME THE 2024
PRESIDENT PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
HERE AGAINST DONALD TRUMP AS A
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE FATE OF
DEMOCRACY. DO YOU THINK
DEMOCRACY IS IN JEOPARDY?
>> THE PRESIDENT SAID IN HIS
SPEECH THAT DEMOCRACY,
DEMOCRACY IS AT RISK ALL OVER
THE WORLD FROM WITHOUT AND FROM
WITHIN. TO A GREATER EXTENT NOW
THAN IT HAS BEEN IN A VERY LONG
TIME. AND WHAT PRESIDENT BIDEN
WAS ARGUING IS THAT THOSE BRAVE
MEN WHO STORMED THE BEACHES AT
NORMANDY WHO SCALED THE CLIFFS
AT POINTE TO HOC WHO LIBERATED
EUROPE AND LITERALLY SAVED THE
WORLD. THEY ARE CALLING US TO
STEP UP TO DO OUR JOB IN OUR
TIME, WHICH IS TO DEFEND
DEMOCRACY STAND WITH ALLIES, TO
REFUSE TO BOW DOWN TO DICTATORS
TO PUSH BACK AGAINST AGGRESSION
THAT'S WHAT PRESIDENT BIDEN IS
SEEKING TO DU, THAT'S